When a Supervisor gives an Employee a written counseling,
he or she must provide the Employee with two copies and
retain a copy as a record.
The rules for the Supervisor retaining a copy depend on
whether the counseling was used to warn the Employee about
misconduct or performance.
If the record of counseling concerns misconduct,
it can only be retained six months for supporting
disciplinary or adverse action taken under Article 37.
If there is no additional related misconduct on the
Employee's part, the counseling record must be removed in six months.
However, if there is additional related misconduct,
the six-month limit is extended to one year.
A written counseling to warn the Employee about his or her
performance uses a time frame for retention connected to the
appeal period for the annual performance rating.
If the record is for performance counseling with no personnel
action taken, it may only be kept until the end of the appeal period.
If the counseling record is used to support a timely personnel
action taken during the performance period or a timely
action based on the Employee's rating,
it can be kept beyond the annual performance appeal period.